{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi186\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 And Terah fathered a son and called him \'93Abram.\'94 And when Abram was 12 years old his father Terah sent him to sell idols. And Abram said, \'93These are not gods that can make deliverance;\'94 and he took away the idols to sell even as his father had commanded him. And he said to those to whom he would sell them, \'93Do you wish to buy gods that cannot make deliverance, things made of wood, stone, iron, and brass, which the hand of a craftsman has made?\'94 And they refused to buy the idols from Abram because he himself had defamed the images of his father. And as he was returning he stepped aside from the road, and he set the images down, and looked at them, and said to them, \'93I wonder now if you are able to do what I ask you at this moment, and whether you are able to give me bread to eat or water to drink?\'94 And none of them answered him, for they were pieces of stone and wood; and he abused them and heaped insults upon them, and they spoke never a word. And he repeatedly struck the face of one, and kicked another with his feet, and a third he knocked over and broke to pieces with stones, and he said to them, \'93If you are unable to deliver yourselves from him that repeatedly strikes you, and you cannot reciprocate with injury him that injures you, how can you be called \'91gods?\'92 Those who worship you do so in vain, and as for myself I utterly despise you, and you shall not be my gods.\'94 Then he turned his face to the East, and he stretched out his hands and said, \'93Be my God, Oh Lord, Creator of the heavens and the earth, Creator of the sun and the moon, Creator of the sea and the dry land, Maker of the majesty of the heavens and the earth, and of that which is visible and that which is invisible; Oh Maker of the universe, be my God. I place my trust in You, and from this day forth I will place my trust in no other except Yourself.\'94 And then there appeared to him a chariot of fire which blazed, and Abram was afraid and fell on his face on the ground; and God said to him, \'93Fear not, stand upright.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0F0E60D9-0C53-4C27-9E16-6377975C34B2"}}{\fldrslt \'94}} And He removed fear from him.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}