{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red193\green193\blue193;\red24\green24\blue24;\red194\green126\blue101;
\red85\green129\blue224;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c80000\c80000\c80000;\cssrgb\c12157\c12157\c12157;\cssrgb\c80784\c56863\c47059;
\cssrgb\c40392\c58824\c90196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Contents\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 [Introduction](#introduction)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 I.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 The Manuscripts of the K\uc0\u277 bra Nagast, etc.\cf2 ](\ul #i-the-manuscripts-of-the-kebra-nagast-and-their-arrival-in-europe-the-labours-of-bruce-dillmann-praetorius-wright-zotenberg-and-bezold-king-johns-letter-to-lord-granville-date-of-compilation-of-the-kebra-nagast-the-ethiopian-work-based-on-coptic-and-arabic-sources-etc\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 II.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Translation of the Arabic Version\cf2 ](\ul #ii-english-translation-of-the-arabic-text-describing-how-the-kingdom-of-david-was-transferred-from-jerusalem-to-ethiopia13\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 III.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Legends of the Queen of Sheba in the \uc0\u7730 ur\'92\'e2n\cf2 ](\ul #iii-legends-of-solomon-and-the-queen-of-sheba-in-the-kur\'e2n-and-in-muhammadan-literature\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 IV.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Modern Legends of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba\cf2 ](\ul #iv-modern-legends-of-solomon-and-the-queen-of-sheba\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 V.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Summary of the Contents of the K\uc0\u277 bra Nagast\cf2 ](\ul #v-the-contents-of-the-kebra-nagast-described\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 [The Chapters of the K\uc0\u277 bra Nagast](#the-chapters-of-the-k\u277 bra-nagast)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 1.\cf2 	[\cf4 The Glory of Kings\cf2 ](\ul #1-concerning-the-glory-of-kings\ulnone )\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 2.\cf2 	[The Greatness of Kings](#2-concerning-the-greatness-of-kings)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 3.\cf2 	[The Kingdom of Adam](#3-concerning-the-kingdom-of-adam)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 4.\cf2 	[Concerning Envy](#4-concerning-envy)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 5.\cf2 	[The Kingdom of Seth](#5-concerning-the-kingdom-of-seth)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 6.\cf2 	[The Sin of Cain](#6-concerning-the-sin-of-cain)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 7.\cf2 	[Noah](#7-concerning-noah)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 8.\cf2 	[The Flood](#8-concerning-the-flood)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 9.\cf2 	[The Covenant of Noah](#9-concerning-the-covenant-of-noah)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 10.\cf2 	[Concerning Zion](#10-concerning-zion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 11.\cf2 	[Declaration of the 318 Orthodox Fathers](#11-the-unanimous-declaration-of-the-318-orthodox-fathers)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 12.\cf2 	[Canaan](#12-concerning-canaan)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 13.\cf2 	[Abraham](#13-concerning-abraham)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 14.\cf2 	[The Covenant of Abraham](#14-concerning-the-covenant-of-abraham)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 15.\cf2 	[Isaac and Jacob](#15-concerning-isaac-and-jacob)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 16.\cf2 	[Reuben](#16-concerning-reuben)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 17.\cf2 	[The Glory of Zion](#17-concerning-the-glory-of-zion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 18.\cf2 	[The Agreement of the Orthodox Fathers and Bishops](#18-how-the-orthodox-fathers-and-bishops-agreed)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 19.\cf2 	[The Discovery of the Book K\uc0\u277 bra Nagast](#19-how-this-book-came-to-be-found)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 20.\cf2 	[The Division of the Earth](#20-concerning-the-division-of-the-earth)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 21.\cf2 	[The Queen of the South](#21-concerning-the-queen-of-the-south)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 22.\cf2 	[T\'e2mr\'een, the Merchant](#22-concerning-t\'e2mr\'een-the-merchant)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 23.\cf2 	[The Return of T\'e2mr\'een to Ethiopia](#23-how-the-merchant-returned-to-ethiopia)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 24.\cf2 	[The Queen of Ethiopia prepares for her Journey to Jerusalem](#24-how-the-queen-made-ready-to-set-out-on-her-journey)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 25.\cf2 	[The Queen of Ethiopia comes to Solomon the King](#25-how-the-queen-came-to-solomon-the-king)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 26.\cf2 	[The Conversation of Solomon with the Queen of Ethiopia](#26-how-the-king-engaged-in-conversation-with-the-queen)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 27.\cf2 	[Solomon and the Workman](#27-concerning-the-labourer)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 28.\cf2 	[Solomon\'92s Instructions to the Queen](#28-how-solomon-gave-commandments-to-the-queen)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 29.\cf2 	[The 318 Patriarchs / Narrative of Solomon and the Queen continued](#29-concerning-the-318-patriarchs)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 30.\cf2 	[Solomon\'92s Oath to the Queen of Ethiopia](#30-concerning-how-king-solomon-swore-to-the-queen)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 31.\cf2 	[Solomon\'92s Sign to the Queen of Ethiopia](#31-concerning-the-sign-which-solomon-gave-the-queen)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 32.\cf2 	[The Queen brings forth her son Menyelek](#32-how-the-queen-brought-forth-and-came-to-her-own-country)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 33.\cf2 	[Menyelek sets out for Jerusalem](#33-how-the-king-of-ethiopia-traveled)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 34.\cf2 	[Menyelek arrived in G\'e2z\'e2](#34-how-the-young-man-arrived-in-his-mothers-country)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 35.\cf2 	[Solomon makes Menyelek Captain of his Host](#35-how-king-solomon-sent-the-commander-of-his-army-to-his-son)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 36.\cf2 	[Solomon\'92s Conversation with Menyelek](#36-how-king-solomon-dealt-with-his-son)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 37.\cf2 	[Solomon questions his son Menyelek](#37-how-solomon-asked-his-son-questions)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 38.\cf2 	[Solomon decides to send Menyelek away with the eldest sons of his nobles](#38-how-the-king-planned-to-send-away-his-son-with-the-children-of-the-nobles)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 39.\cf2 	[Menyelek is anointed King of Ethiopia, and is called David (II)](#39-how-they-made-the-son-of-solomon-king)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 40.\cf2 	[Zadok\'92s Commands to Menyelek](#40-how-zadok-the-priest-gave-commands-to-david-the-king)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 41.\cf2 	[The Blessing of Kings](#41-concerning-the-blessing-of-kings)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 42.\cf2 	[The Ten Commandments](#42-concerning-the-ten-commandments)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 43.\cf2 	[The Priests and Officials of the Court of Menyelek in Ethiopia](#43-how-the-men-of-the-army-of-israel-received-their-orders)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 44.\cf2 	[The King must not be reviled](#44-how-it-is-not-a-proper-thing-to-revile-the-king)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 45.\cf2 	[The Sons of the Nobles who are to go to Ethiopia make a plot](#45-how-those-who-were-sent-away-wept-and-made-a-plan)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 46.\cf2 	[The Plot to steal the Tabernacle of Zion from the Temple in Jerusalem](#46-how-they-made-a-plan-concerning-zion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 47.\cf2 	[The Offering of Azariah and the King](#47-concerning-the-offering-of-azariah-and-the-king)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 48.\cf2 	[How they stole the Tabernacle of Zion](#48-how-they-carried-away-zion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 49.\cf2 	[How Solomon blessed his son Menyelek](#49-how-his-father-blessed-his-son)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 50.\cf2 	[The Farewell of Menyelek to his father, and the grief of the people](#50-how-they-bid-farewell-to-his-father-and-how-the-city-mourned)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 51.\cf2 	[Solomon bids Zadok fetch the covering of the Tabernacle of Zion](#51-how-he-said-to-zadok-the-priest-go-and-bring-the-covering-which-is-upon-zion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 52.\cf2 	[Zadok gives Menyelek the covering of the Tabernacle of Zion](#52-how-zadok-the-priest-departed)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 53.\cf2 	[The Gift of the Wagon of Zion to Ethiopia](#53-how-the-wagon-was-given-to-ethiopia)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 54.\cf2 	[How Menyelek prophesied and saluted Zion](#54-how-menyelek-the-king-of-ethiopia-prophesied-and-saluted-zion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 55.\cf2 	[How the People of Ethiopia rejoiced](#55-how-the-people-of-ethiopia-rejoiced)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 56.\cf2 	[Zadok the Priest discovers that the Tabernacle of Zion has been stolen](#56-of-the-return-of-zadok-the-priest-and-the-giving-of-the-gift)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 57.\cf2 	[The Swooning of Zadok the Priest](#57-concerning-the-fall-of-zadok-the-priest)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 58.\cf2 	[How Solomon rose up to slay them](#58-how-solomon-set-out-to-kill-them)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 59.\cf2 	[Solomon arrives in Egypt and questions the Egyptians](#59-how-the-king-questioned-an-egyptian-the-servant-of-pharaoh)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 60.\cf2 	[Solomon\'92s Lament for the Tabernacle of Zion](#60-how-solomon-lamented-for-zion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 61.\cf2 	[Solomon\'92s Return to Jerusalem](#61-how-solomon-returned-to-jerusalem)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 62.\cf2 	[Solomon\'92s Resignation to the Will of God](#62-concerning-the-answer-which-solomon-gave-to-them)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 63.\cf2 	[The Elders accept Solomon\'92s View and decide to keep the theft of Zion a secret](#63-how-the-nobles-of-israel-agreed-with-the-king)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 64.\cf2 	[Solomon marries an Egyptian Princess](#64-how-the-daughter-of-pharaoh-seduced-solomon)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 65.\cf2 	[The Sin of Solomon](#65-concerning-the-sin-of-solomon)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 66.\cf2 	[Solomon a prototype of Christ](#66-concerning-the-prophecy-of-christ)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 67.\cf2 	[The Death Lament of Solomon](#67-concerning-the-lamentation-of-solomon)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 68.\cf2 	[The Virgin Mary, our Lady of Salvation](#68-concerning-mary-our-lady-of-salvation)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 69.\cf2 	[The Conversation of Solomon with the Angel concerning Christ](#69-concerning-the-question-of-solomon)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 70.\cf2 	[The Reign of Rehoboam](#70-how-rehoboam-reigned)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 71.\cf2 	[The Virgin Mary, the daughter of David](#71-concerning-mary-the-daughter-of-david)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 72.\cf2 	[The King of Byzantium](#72-concerning-the-king-of-byzantium)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 73.\cf2 	[\'92Adr\'e2m\'ee, the son of Solomon, becomes King of Byzantium](#73-concerning-the-first-judgment-of-adr\'e2m\'ee-king-of-constantinople)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 74.\cf2 	[The King of Medy\'e2m, a descendant of Shem](#74-concerning-the-king-of-medy\'e2m)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 75.\cf2 	[The King of Babylon, a descendant of Shem](#75-concerning-the-king-of-babylon)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 76.\cf2 	[Nebuchadnezzar, the son of Karm\'een, a descendant of Shem](#76-concerning-lying-witnesses)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 77.\cf2 	[The King of Persia, a descendant of Tamar](#77-concerning-the-king-of-persia)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 78.\cf2 	[The King of Moab, a descendant of Lot](#78-concerning-the-king-of-moab)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 79.\cf2 	[The King of Amalek, a descendant of Lot](#79-concerning-the-king-of-amalek)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 80.\cf2 	[The King of Philistia, a descendant of Samson](#80-concerning-the-king-of-the-philistines)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 81.\cf2 	[How Akam\uc0\u7717 \'eal, the son of Samson, slew \u7788 ebr\'eal\'eas, the son of the King of the Philistines](#81-how-the-son-of-samson-killed-the-son-of-the-king-of-the-philistines)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 82.\cf2 	[Abraham\'92s journey into Egypt](#82-concerning-abraham-going-down-into-egypt)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 83.\cf2 	[The King of the Ishmaelites](#83-concerning-the-king-of-the-ishmaelites)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 84.\cf2 	[How Menyelek returned to Ethiopia](#84-concerning-the-king-of-ethiopia-and-how-he-returned-to-his-country)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 85.\cf2 	[How Queen M\'e2k\uc0\u277 d\'e2 rejoiced at his coming](#85-concerning-the-rejoicing-of-queen-m\'e2k\u277 d\'e2)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 86.\cf2 	[How Queen M\'e2k\uc0\u277 d\'e2 made her son King of Ethiopia](#86-how-queen-m\'e2k\u277 d\'e2-made-her-son-king)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 87.\cf2 	[How the Ethiopian Nobles swore fidelity to him](#87-how-the-nobles-of-ethiopia-took-the-oath)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 88.\cf2 	[Menyelek describes to his Mother his anointing as King](#88-how-he-told-his-mother-how-they-made-him-king)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 89.\cf2 	[Queen M\'e2k\uc0\u277 d\'e2\'92s Address to the Israelites in Ethiopia](#89-how-the-queen-talked-to-the-children-of-israel)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 90.\cf2 	[How Azariah praised the Queen and her Royal City](#90-how-azariah-praised-the-queen-and-her-city)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 91.\cf2 	[Regulations about Meats, clean and unclean](#91-this-is-what-you-shall-eat-the-clean-and-the-unclean)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 92.\cf2 	[How the Kingdom of Menyelek was established in Ethiopia](#92-how-they-renewed-the-kingdom-of-david)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 93.\cf2 	[How the Men of Byzantium destroyed the Faith](#93-how-the-men-of-byzantium-destroyed-the-faith)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 94.\cf2 	[The First War of Menyelek](#94-the-first-war-of-the-king-of-ethiopia)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 95.\cf2 	[How the Authority of Menyelek was universally accepted](#95-how-the-honorable-estate-of-the-king-of-ethiopia-was-universally-accepted)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 96.\cf2 	[The Prophecies concerning Christ](#96-concerning-the-prophecy-about-christ)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 97.\cf2 	[The Murmuring of the Israelites against Moses and Aaron](#97-concerning-the-murmuring-of-israel)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 98.\cf2 	[The Rod of Moses and the Rod of Aaron](#98-concerning-the-rod-of-moses-and-the-rod-of-aaron)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 99.\cf2 	[Parable of the Two Slaves, 
\f3\i *i.e.*
\f2\i0  the Devil and Adam](#99-concerning-the-two-servants)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 100.\cf2 	[How the Angels rebelled against God when He created Adam](#100-concerning-the-angels-who-rebelled)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 101.\cf2 	[Concerning Him that exists in everything](#101-concerning-him-that-exists-in-everything-and-everywhere)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 102.\cf2 	[The Beginning](#102-concerning-the-beginning)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 103.\cf2 	[The Horns of the Altar and their Significance](#103-concerning-the-horns-of-the-altar)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 104.\cf2 	[The Ark of Noah and the Talk of the Wicked](#104-more-concerning-the-ark-and-the-talk-of-the-wicked)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 105.\cf2 	[The Belief of Abraham](#105-concerning-the-belief-of-abraham)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 106.\cf2 	[Prophecies concerning the Coming of Christ](#106-a-prophecy-concerning-the-coming-of-christ)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 107.\cf2 	[Christ\'92s Glorious Entrance into Jerusalem](#107-concerning-his-entrance-into-jerusalem-in-glory)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 108.\cf2 	[The Wickedness of the Jews](#108-concerning-the-wickedness-of-the-iniquitous-jews)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 109.\cf2 	[The Crucifixion](#109-concerning-his-crucifixion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 110.\cf2 	[The Resurrection](#110-concerning-his-resurrection)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 111.\cf2 	[The Ascension of Christ and His Second Coming](#111-concerning-his-ascension-and-his-second-coming)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 112.\cf2 	[The Prophets as prototypes of Christ](#112-how-the-prophets-foreshadowed-him-in-their-persons)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 113.\cf2 	[The Chariot and the Vanquisher of the Enemy](#113-concerning-the-chariot-and-the-vanquisher-of-the-enemy)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 114.\cf2 	[The Return of Zion](#114-concerning-the-return-of-zion)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 115.\cf2 	[The Judgement of Israel](#115-concerning-the-judgement-of-israel)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 116.\cf2 	[The Chariot of Ethiopia](#116-concerning-the-chariot-of-ethiopia)\cb1 \
\cf5 \cb3 117.\cf2 	[The King of Byzantium and the King of Ethiopia](#117-concerning-the-king-of-byzantium-and-the-king-of-ethiopia)\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 [\cf4 Colophon\cf2 ](\ul #colophon\ulnone )\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 Appendices\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 I.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 List of Passages quoted from the Old and New Testaments\cf2 ](\ul #i-a-list-of-the-passages-from-the-old-and-new-testaments-quoted-or-referred-to-in-the-kebra-nagast\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 II.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Known history and variations of the K\uc0\u601 br\'e4 N\'e4g\'e4\u347 t texts\cf2 ](\ul #ii-known-history-and-variations-of-the-k\uc0\u601 br\'e4-n\'e4g\'e4\u347 t-texts\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 III.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Recommended reading\cf2 ](\ul #iii-recommended-reading\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 IV.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Visual timeline\cf2 ](\ul #iv-visual-timeline\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 V.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Family tree\cf2 ](\ul #v-family-tree\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 VI.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Organization models\cf2 ](\ul #vi-organization-models\ulnone )  \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 VII.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[\cf4 Map\cf2 ](\ul #vii-map\ulnone )  }