{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi186\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 And the Queen rejoiced, and she went forth in order to depart, and the King set her on her way with great pomp and ceremony. And Solomon took her aside so that they might be alone together, and he took off the ring that was upon his little finger, and he gave it to the Queen, and said to her, \'93Take this so that you may not forget me. And if it happens that I obtain a descendant from you, this ring shall be to the child a sign; and if the child be a boy he shall come to me; and the peace of God be with you! While I was sleeping with you I saw many visions in a dream, and it seemed as if a sun had risen upon Israel, but it snatched itself away and flew off and lighted up the country of Ethiopia; perhaps that country shall be blessed through you; God knows. And as for you, observe what I have told you, so that you may worship God with all your heart and perform His Will. For He punishes those who are arrogant, He shows compassion upon those who are humble, He removes the thrones of the mighty, and He makes to be honored those who are needy. For death and life are from Him, and riches and poverty are bestowed by His Will. For everything is His, and none can oppose His command and His judgment in the heavens, or in the earth, or in the sea, or in the abysses. And may God be with you! Go in peace.\'94 And they separated from each other.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}