{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi186\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 And he said to Zadok the Priest, \'93Go, bring that covering which is upon Zion, and take this covering which is better than that, and lay it over the two coverings which are below it.\'94 (Now this covering was made of threads of the finest gold wirework twisted together and hammered out into a pattern, and they were not woven like the threads of purple.) \'93And the five {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B3C97E5A-AACD-43D3-975D-B7286061B7E6"}}{\fldrslt mice}} which were given to Zion, and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3376F722-B053-4E56-9C70-CC016C61BEC5"}}{\fldrslt ten}} figures of their hemorrhoids which the nobles of the Philistines made for their redemption \'97 now on the fringes are figures of gold that came forth from the land of \uc0\u7730 \'e2d\'eas, which Moses in Sinai commanded should be made in the fringe of the apparel of Aaron his brother \'97 gather all these together in the covering of Zion and give them to my son Menyelek. For his mother said in her message by T\'e2mr\'een her servant, \'91Give us some of the fringe of the covering of Zion, so that we may worship it, we and those who are in subjection to us and all our kingdom.\'92 And now, give it to him, and say to him, \'91Take and worship this covering of Zion, for your mother sent a message concerning this, and has said to you yourself, \'91Give us some of the fringe of its covering, which we can worship, so that we may not, like the heathen, worship another god.\'92 And Zion, the Tabernacle of the Law of God, shall be to you a guide wherever you are. But it must remain with us perpetually, although we have not paid it all the honor which is its due; and you, although it be not with you, must honor it, and revere it according to what is due to it and what is proper. For God said to Eli by the mouth of Samuel the Prophet, \'91I wished you to remain, you and your father\'92s house, to offer up incense to the Tabernacle of My Law, and to dwell before Me forever, but now I have repented. I will turn My face away from you because you have treated My offerings with contempt, and have preferred your sons to Me. And now, him that honors Me I will honor, and him that admires Me lightly I will admire lightly; and I will destroy all your descendants.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1BFA26E8-4087-47EF-AE72-2F14C2500AE7"}}{\fldrslt \'92}} This He said because the Levites had admired Him lightly. And say to him: Take this covering of Zion, and this votive gift shall be in the place of it, and place it in your sanctuary. And when you take an oath and make another to take an oath, swear you and make him to swear by it, so that you do not make mention of the names of other gods of the heathen. And when you sacrifice let your face be towards us, and sacrifice to Jerusalem and the holy Zion; and when you pray let your face be towards Jerusalem, and pray towards us.\'94
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}