{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \'93And again, there shall be to you a sign that the Savior shall come from your descendants, and that He shall deliver you with your fathers and your descendants after you by His coming. Your salvation was created in the belly of Adam in the form of a Pearl before Eve. And when He created Eve out of the rib He brought her to Adam, and said to them, \'91Multiply from the belly of Adam.\'92 The Pearl did not go out into Cain or Abel, but into the third that went forth from the belly of Adam, and it entered into the belly of Seth. And then passing from him that Pearl went into those who were the firstborn, and came to Abraham. And it did not go from Abraham into his firstborn Ishmael, but it lingered and came into Isaac the pure. And it did not go into his firstborn, the arrogant Esau, but it went into Jacob the lowly one. And it did not enter from him into his firstborn, the erring Reuben, but into Judah, the innocent one. And it did not go forth from Judah until four sinners had been born, but it came to Perez, the patient one, and from him this Pearl went to the firstborn until it came into the belly of Jesse, the father of your father. And then it waited until six men of anger had been born, and after that it came to the seventh, David{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7E477672-25C4-4140-B5F2-D68C954A587A"}}{\fldrslt ,}} your innocent and humble father; for God hates the arrogant and proud, and loves the innocent and humble. And then it waited in the loins of your father until five erring fools had been born, when it came into your loins because of your wisdom and understanding. And then the Pearl waited, and it did not go forth into your firstborn. For those good men of his country neither denied Him nor crucified Him, like Israel your people; when they saw Him Who worked miracles, Who was to be born from the Pearl, they believed on Him when they heard the report of Him. And the Pearl did not go forth into your youngest son \'92Adr\'e2m\'ee. For those good men neither crucified Him nor denied Him when they saw the working of miracles, and wonders by Him that was to be born from the Pearl, and afterwards they believed in Him through His disciples.\
\'93Now the Pearl, which is to be your salvation, went forth from your belly and entered into the belly of Rehoboam your son, because of the wickedness of Israel your people, who in their denial and in their wickedness crucified Him. But if He had not been crucified He could not have been your salvation. For He was crucified without sin, and He rose again without corruption. And for the sake of this He went down to you into the netherworld, and tore down its walls, that He might deliver you and bring you out, and show mercy upon all of you. You in whose bellies the Pearl shall be carried shall be saved with your wives, and none of you shall be destroyed, from your father Adam to him that shall come, your relative Joachim, and from Eve your mother, the wife of Adam, to Noah and his wife Emzara, to Terah and his wife Amahla\'92ah, and to Abraham and his wife Sarah, and to Isaac and his wife Rebecca, and to Jacob and his wife Leah, and to Yah\'fbd\'e2 and his bride Tamar, and to your father and his wife Bathsheba, and to yourself and Tarb\'e2n\'e2 your wife, and to Rehoboam your son and his wife \'92Am\'ees\'e2, and to Joachim your relative, who is to come, and his wife \uc0\u7716 ann\'e2.\
\'93None of you who shall have carried the Pearl shall be destroyed, and whether it be your men or your women, those who shall have carried the Pearl shall not be destroyed. For the Pearl shall be carried by the men who shall be righteous, and the women who have carried the Pearl shall not be destroyed, for they shall become pure through that Pearl, for it is holy and pure, and by it they shall be made holy and pure; and for its sake and for the sake of Zion He has created the whole world. Zion has taken up her abode with your firstborn and she shall be the salvation of the people of Ethiopia forever; and the Pearl shall be carried in the belly of Rehoboam your son, and shall be the savior of all the world. And when the appointed time has come this Pearl shall be born of your descendants, for it is exceedingly pure, seven times purer than the sun. And the Redeemer shall come from the seat of His Godhead, and shall dwell upon her, and shall put on her flesh, and immediately you yourself shall announce to her what my Lord and your Lord spoke to me.\
\'93I am Gabriel the Angel, the protector of those who shall carry the Pearl from the body of Adam even to the belly of \uc0\u7716 ann\'e2, so that I may keep from servitude and pollution you in which the Pearl shall dwell. And Michael has been commanded to direct and keep Zion wherever she goes, and Uriel shall direct and keep the wood of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://023BC5FA-747B-45FA-A9AA-E1BD0B7E711F"}}{\fldrslt thicket}} which shall be the Cross of the Savior. And when your people in their envy have crucified Him, they shall rush upon His Cross because of the multitude of miracles that shall take place through it, and they shall be put to shame when they see its wonders. And in the last times a descendant of your son \'92Adr\'e2m\'ees shall take the wood of the Cross, the third means of salvation that shall be sent upon the earth. The Angel Michael is with Zion, with Menyelek your firstborn, who has taken the throne of David your father. And I am with the pure Pearl for him that shall reign forever, with Rehoboam your second son; and the Angel Uriel is with your youngest son \'92Adr\'e2m\'ees. This have I told you, and you shall not make your heart to be sad because of your own salvation and that of your son.\'94\
And when Solomon had heard these words, his strength came back to him on his bed, and he prostrated himself before the Angel of God, and said, \'93I give thanks to the Lord, my Lord and your Lord, Oh you radiant being of the spirit, because you have made me to hear a word which fills me with gladness, and because He does not cut off my soul from the inheritance of my father because of my sin, and because my repentance has been accepted after my affliction, and because He has regarded my tears, and has heard my cry of grief, and has looked upon my affliction, and has not let me die in my grief, but has made me to rejoice before my soul shall go forth from my body. From now on the thought of dying shall not make me sorrowful, and I will love death as I love life. From now on I will drink of the bitter cup of death as if it were honey, and from now on I will love the grave as if it were an abode of costly gems. And when I have descended and have been thrust down deep into the netherworld, because of my sins, I shall not suffer grief, because I have heard the word which has made me glad. And when I have gone down into the lowest depth of the deepest deep of the netherworld, because of my sins, what will it matter to me? And if He crush me to powder in His hand and scatter me to the ends of the earth and to the winds because of my sins, it will not make me sorrowful, because I have heard the word that has made me to rejoice, and God has not cut my soul off from the inheritance of my fathers. And my soul shall be with the soul of David my father, and with the soul of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob my fathers. And the Savior shall come and shall bring us out from the netherworld with all my fathers, and my kinsmen, old and young. And as for my children, they shall have upon earth three mighty angels to protect them. I have found the kingdom of the heavens, and the kingdom of the earth. Who is like to God, the Merciful, Who shows mercy to His handiwork and glorifies it, Who forgives the sins of the sinners and Who does not wipe out the memorial of the penitent? For His whole Person is forgiveness, and His whole Person is mercy, and to Him belongs praise.\'94 Amen.}