{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi186\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 And Zadok the priest answered and said to the young man, \'93Listen to what I shall say to you. And if you will perform it you shall live to God, and if you do not God will punish you, and you shall become the least of all the nations, and you shall be vanquished by your foes. And God shall turn away His face from you, and you shall be dismayed, and sad, and sorrowful in your heart, and your sleep shall be without refreshment and health. And listen to the word of God, and perform it, and withdraw not yourself either to the right hand or the left, in respect of that which we command you this day; and you shall serve no other god. And if you will not hear the word of God, then listen to all the curses here mentioned which shall come upon you. Cursed shall you be in the field, cursed shall you be in the city. Cursed shall be the fruit of your land, cursed shall be the fruit of your belly, and the herds of your cattle, and the flocks of your sheep. And God shall send upon you famine and pestilence, and He shall destroy that to which you have put your hand, until at length He shall destroy you, because you have not listened to His word. And the heavens which are above you shall become brass, and the earth which is beneath you shall become iron; and God shall make the rain which should fall upon your land to be darkness only, and dust shall descend from heaven upon you until it shall cover you up and destroy you. And you shall be struck in battle before your enemies. You shall go forth to attack them by one road, and by seven ways shall you take to flight before their faces, and you shall be routed; and your dead body shall become food for the fowl of the heavens, and there shall be none to bury you. And God shall punish you with leprosy, and with the wasting disease, and with the fever that destroys, and with the plagues of Egypt, and with blindness and terror of heart; and you shall grope about by day like a blind man in the darkness, and you shall find none to help you in your trouble. You shall marry a wife, and another man shall carry her away from you by force. You shall build a house, and shall not dwell in it. And you shall plant a vineyard and shall not harvest the grapes of it. Men shall kill your fat oxen before your eyes, and you shall not eat of their flesh. Men shall snatch away your donkey, and shall not bring him back to you. Your sheep shall run to the slaves and to your enemy, and you shall find none to help you. And your sons and your daughters shall follow other people, and you shall see with your own eyes how they are struck, and shall be able to do nothing. An enemy whom you do not know shall devour the food of your land and your labour, and you shall not be able to prevent him; and you shall become a man of suffering and calamity. When the day dawns you shall say, \'91Would that the evening had come!\'92 and when the evening comes you shall say, \'91Would that the morning had come!\'92 through the greatness of your fear. \'97 All these things shall come upon you if you will not listen to the word of the Lord. But if you will truly listen to the word of the Lord \'97 hear you \'97 the goodness of God shall find you, and you shall rule the countries of the enemy, and you shall inherit everlasting glory from the Lord God of Israel, Who rules everything. For He honors him that honors Him, and He loves him that loves Him, for He is the Lord of death and of life, and He directs and rules all the world with His wisdom, and His power, and His mighty arm.\'94
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}