{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi186\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 And God engaged in conversation with Abram, and He said to him, \'93Fear not. From this day you are My servant, and I will establish My Covenant with you and with your descendants after you, and I will multiply your descendants, and I will magnify your name exceedingly. And I will bring down the Tabernacle of My Covenant upon the earth seven generations after you, and it shall go about with your descendants, and shall be salvation to your race and afterwards I will send My Word for the salvation of Adam and his sons forever. And at this moment these who are of your family are rebels, and My divinity, which is true, they have rejected. And as for you, that day by day they may not seduce you, come, leave this land, the land of your fathers, into the land which I will show you, and I will give it to your descendants after you.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C736B622-28DD-4F0F-A5D4-4F5377734C65"}}{\fldrslt \'94}} And Abram made homage to God, and was subject to his God. And God said to him, \'93Your name shall be Abraham;\'94 and He gave him the salutation of peace and went up into heaven. And Abraham returned to his abode, and he took Sarah his wife, and went forth and did not go back to his father, his mother, his house, and his relatives; and he abandoned them all for God\'92s sake. And he arrived in the city of Salem, and lived there and reigned in righteousness, and did not disobey the commandment of God. And God blessed him exceedingly, and at length he possessed 318 stalwart servants, who were trained in war, and who stood before him and performed his will. And they wore tunics richly embroidered with gold, and they had chains of gold about their necks, and belts of gold round their loins, and they had crowns of gold on their heads; and by means of these men Abraham vanquished his foe. And he died in glory in God, and was more gracious and excellent than those who were before him. He was gracious, and held in honor, and highly esteemed.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}