{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi186\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 And then Noah the righteous man died, and Shem reigned in wisdom and righteousness, for he was blessed by Noah, saying, \'93Be God to your brother.\'94 And to Ham he said, \'93Be servant to your brother.\'94 And he said to Japhet, \'93Be servant to Shem my heir, and be subject to him.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://303AD065-3530-41B5-888D-ABE1D3FA45F3"}}{\fldrslt \'94}} And again, after the Flood, the Devil, our Enemy, did not cease from his hostility against the children of Noah, but stirred up Canaan, the son of Ham, and he became the violent usurper who tore the kingdom from the children of Shem. Now they had divided the earth among them, and Noah had made them swear by the Name of his God that they would not encroach on each other\'92s boundaries, and would not eat the beast that had died of itself or had been torn by wild animals, and that they would not cultivate harlotry against the law, lest God should again become angry with them and punish them with a Flood. And as for Noah, he humbled himself, offered up sacrifice, cried out, groaned, and wept. And God spoke with Noah, who said to Him, \'93If You will destroy the earth a second time with a Flood, wipe me out with those who are to perish.\'94 And God said to him, \'93I will make a covenant with you that you shall tell your children they shall not eat the beast that has died on its own or that has been torn by wild beasts, and they shall not cultivate prostitution against the law; and I, on My part, covenant that I will not destroy the earth a second time with a Flood, and that I will give to your children Winter and Summer, Seed time and Harvest, Autumn and Spring.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://18B43CDA-6BD1-4761-BCC4-109A233DFBB3"}}{\fldrslt \'94
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}}}