{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi186\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 And then the King of Ethiopia rose up to depart to his country, and he came to his father that he might pray on his behalf, and he said to him, \'93Bless me, father;\'94 and he made homage to him. And the King raised him up, and blessed him, and embraced his head, and said, \'93Blessed be the Lord my God Who blessed my father David, and Who blessed our father Abraham. May He be with you always, and bless your descendants even as He blessed Jacob, and made his descendants to be as many as the stars of heaven and the sand of the sea. And as Abraham blessed Isaac my father even so shall your blessing be \'97 the dew of heaven and the spaciousness of the earth \'97 and may all animals and all the birds of the heavens, and all the beasts of the field, and the fish of the sea, be in subjection to you. Be full, and not lacking in fullness; be perfect, and not lacking in perfection; be gracious, and not obstinate; be in good health, and not suffering; be generous, and not vindictive; be pure, and not defiled; be righteous, and not a sinner; be merciful, and not oppressive; be sincere, and not perverse; be long-suffering, and not prone to anger. And the enemy shall be afraid of you, and your adversaries shall cast themselves under the sole of your foot. And my Lady Zion, the holy and heavenly, the Tabernacle of the Law of God, shall be a guide to you at all times, a guide in respect of what you should think in your heart and should do with your fingers, whether it be far or near to you, whether it be low or high to you, whether it be strong or weak to you, whether it be outside or inside you, whether it be to you in the house or in the field, whether it be visible or invisible to you, whether it be away from or near to you, whether it be hidden from or revealed to you, whether it be secret or published abroad to you \'97 to you our Lady Zion, the holy and heavenly, the pure Tabernacle of the Law of God, shall be a guide.\'94 And Menyelek was blessed, and he made homage, and departed.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}