{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 And you do not understand that they were justified by faith \'97 Abraham, and David and all the Prophets, one after the other, who prophesied concerning the coming of the Son of God. And Abraham said, \'93Will You in my days, Oh Lord, cast Your word upon the ground?\'94 And God said to him, \'93By no means. His time has not yet come, but I will show you something similar to His coming. Get over the Jordan, and dip yourself in the water as you go over, and arrive at the city of Salem, where you shall meet Melchizedek, and I will command him to show you the sign and likeness of Him.\'94 And Abraham did this and he found Melchizedek, and he gave him the mystery of the bread and wine{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DEACC76C-2C6F-41EA-943B-B720798FD42F"}}{\fldrslt ,}} that same which is celebrated in our Passover for our salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. This was the desire and the joy of Abraham as he went round the altar which Melchizedek had made, carrying branch and palm on the day of the Sabbath. See how he rejoiced in his belief, and see how he was justified by his belief, Oh blind Jew, who though having eyes see not, and having ears hear not, even as the Prophet Isaiah said concerning you, \'93Their eyes are blind, and their hearts are covered with darkness, so that they may not understand and God may not show compassion to them.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3BB2675B-37E3-4EE0-B507-244323061FE0"}}{\fldrslt \'94}}}