{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 And as concerning the Ark: God saved Noah in the Ark. And God had a conversation with Abraham in the wood of Manbar{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://02454E55-1365-48AB-ADDF-8F69DC45CB43"}}{\fldrslt ,}} that is to say the wood that cannot be destroyed; and He saved Isaac by means of the ram which was caught in the thicket{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B8735E16-E991-424A-BEF8-D3E8F61234BC"}}{\fldrslt ;}} and He made Jacob rich by means of three rods of woods which he laid in running water{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E2E33CCA-3D68-409A-9F7A-4495C7C84CDE"}}{\fldrslt ;}} and through the top of his staff Jacob was blessed{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://52C2744E-F312-497F-9EEF-7E1491B930E6"}}{\fldrslt .}} And He said to Moses, \'93Make a tabernacle of wood which cannot be destroyed, similar to Zion, the Tabernacle of the Covenant.\'94 And when David took it from the city of Samaria, he placed the Tabernacle of the Law in a new Tabernacle, and rejoiced before it{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://398C857B-D85E-4F4F-944E-716EA300AD27"}}{\fldrslt .}} For from the beginning God had made the Tabernacle the means of salvation, and very many signs and wonders were performed through it by its form and similitude. Listen now to me, and I will show you plainly how God had ordained salvation through the wood of His Cross, in the Tabernacle of His Law, from the beginning to the end.\
Salvation came to Adam through the wood. For Adam\'92s first sin came through the wood, and from the beginning God ordained salvation for him through the wood. For God Himself is the Creator and Giver of life and death, and everything is performed by His Word, and He created everything, and He made righteous him that serves Him in purity in His pure Tabernacle of the Law. For it is called \'93mercy-seat,\'94 \'93place of refuge,\'94 \'93altar,\'94 \'93place of forgiveness of sins,\'94 \'93salvation,\'94 \'93gate of life,\'94 \'93glorification,\'94 \'93city of refuge,\'94 \'93ship,\'94 \'93haven of salvation,\'94 \'93house of prayer,\'94 and \'93place of forgiveness of sins for him that prays in purity in it,\'94 so that men may pray there in purity and not defile their bodies. God loves the pure, for He is the habitation for the pure. Those who come into His habitation, and are accepted in the holy Tabernacle, and who pray to Him with all their hearts, He will hear and will save in the day of their tribulation, and He will fulfill their desire. For He has made the holy Tabernacle to be similar to His throne. But there are some among those whom you have brought to us who are like to us Christians, but who have not abandoned the sin which their father the Devil has made to spring up in them. And he said, \'93Thus it is right that we should pray in Zion, the Tabernacle of the Law of God; she was at the first and is even now. The similarity there and the fruit there are the Mother of the Redeemer, Mary; it is right that we should worship her, for in her name is blessed the Tabernacle of the Law of God. And it is right that we should worship Michael and Gabriel.\'94\
And the Archbishop Cyril answered and said to them: And if he has said this to them, we also will say to them: What did our Lord Jesus Christ say when He was teaching those who believed in Him? One came from outside and said to Him, \'93Behold them, Your father and Your mother outside seeking You.\'94 And Christ the Lover of men answered and, stretching out His hand towards those whom He was teaching, said, without making any distinction or difference between man and woman, \'93Behold them, My father, and My mother, and My brother. Whoever has heard My word and has done the Will of My Father, that same is My father, and My mother, and My sister.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://02BC21CC-A70F-4044-958A-DCAB877901B4"}}{\fldrslt \'94}} Oh you blind-hearted Jew, can you not see His mercy and His love for men when He spoke thus? He neither separated nor made a distinction, but He said to them, \'93My brother.\'94 For He loves those who love Him and keep His commandment, especially the martyrs, who for His sake delivered themselves over to death, though they knew the bitterness of death; and the solitary monks who keep the commandment of God, and love Him with all their hearts, and He loveth them. And their graves which are built, that is to say, the martyriums, and the churches which are built in their names, and the tabernacles which the Bishops consecrate in their names; every one is holy in the house of the Sanctuary of God. And the man who prays in their names God hears. And those who pray in purity, without uncleanness and blemish, and in humility and sincerity in a tabernacle which has been consecrated \'97 whether it be in the name of a martyr, or in the name of an angel, or in the names of the righteous, or in the name of a virgin, or in the name of holy women \'97 if it be consecrated, the Holy Spirit comes down upon them and changes the wood so that it becomes a spiritual being. In this manner God transformed the rod of Moses by His word, and it became a thing of life and made Moses fear his Lord. And in like manner Joseph worshiped the top of the rod of Jacob when he was before him; none forced him, but through the belief of his father he worshiped the top of his rod. And this which Moses wrote is a prophecy for the last days, so that we may know that tabernacles in the names of martyrs and righteous men are holy, namely, when he saw him he worshiped the top of his rod.\
And I will also declare to you what is written concerning the pride of Pharaoh. Moses did as God commanded him, and turned his rod into a serpent; and Pharaoh commanded the magicians, the sorcerers, to do the same with their rods. And they made their rods into three serpents which, by means of magic, wriggled before Moses and Aaron, and before Pharaoh and the nobles of Egypt. And the rod of Moses swallowed up the rods of the magicians, for these deceivers had worked magic for the sight of the eyes of men. Now that which happens through the word of God overcomes every kind of magic that can be worked. And no one can find him to be evil, for it is the Holy Spirit Who guides and directs him that believes with an upright heart without negligence. Even as Paul said, \'93By believing, the fathers of olden time were saved.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FD4D3A79-FBFE-420B-B1D2-D9EF82328763"}}{\fldrslt \'94}} He wished to make known each by his name from Adam, and Noah, and Abraham, to Rahab the prostitute who received the spies. And you, Oh blind Jew, can you not understand from what you read in the Law, that is to say, the Torah in which you believe, that inasmuch as you can not perform its commandments you are cursed thereby? For when He said, \'93All those who walk in it, if they do not keep what is written in it, accursed shall they be,\'94 He said it to you. But us, who believe in Christ, the Son of God, the grace of God has chosen, saying, \'93He who believes and is baptized shall be saved.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://169AB1F7-6AEF-454C-B1E0-D6513E9511DA"}}{\fldrslt \'94}}}