{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 And the Queen answered and said to them, \'93Not as servants as you say but as a father and a teacher will we treat you. For you are the guardians of the Law of God, the guides of the commandment of the God of Israel, the men of the house of God, and the guardians of Zion, the Tabernacle of the Law of God, and we do not wish to disobey your commandments, for you shall be to us a guide to the path of God away from all evil. At your words we will withdraw from that with which God is not well-pleased, and we will draw near to every good thing with which God is well-pleased at your commandment. Only do you instruct all this people, and teach them the words of knowledge, for never before have they heard such things as they have heard this day. It is only those who have understanding in them that wisdom and understanding illumine like the light of the sun. As for me, up to this present I have not drunk deeply of the water of knowledge. Now it is sweeter than honey, and quenches the thirst more than wine, and it satisfies and makes wisdom to bubble up, and it stimulates the understanding, and makes a man to pour forth words like a drunken man, and makes the unsteady man like one who flies, and makes a man as hot as he that carries a heavy load on a difficult road in a parched land that is burnt up by a blazing sun. When the hearts of the wise are open to prophecy and to knowledge, they do not fear the king because of the greatness of his glory if he turns himself aside from the way of God. And mark this: The word of the Law, which has been uttered, is indeed understanding to those who wish for it, and who drink it in and soak themselves in it. I pray You, Oh Lord God of Israel, You Holiest of the Holy, grant to me that I may follow wisdom, and may not become a castaway; grant to me that I may make her a wall to myself, and may never fall down; grant that I may make her a foundation for me, and may never be overthrown; grant that I may stand upon her as firmly as a pillar, and may never shake; grant that I may hide in her, and never have her stripped from me; grant that I may build myself upon her, and may not topple over; grant that I may become vigorous through her, and not suffer from exhaustion; grant that I may stand through her, and may not fall; grant that I may lay hold upon her, and may not slip away; grant that I may grasp her firmly, and may not slide; grant that I may dwell in her in her peace; grant that I may be satisfied at her table, and may not vomit, and drink her and not get drunk upon her, and may be satisfied with her and not spit her out.\
\'93I have drunk of her, but have not wobbled; I have wobbled through her, but have not fallen; I have fallen because of her, but have not been destroyed. Through her I have dived down into the great sea and have seized in the place of her depths a pearl though which I am rich. I went down like the great iron anchor through which men anchor ships for the night on the high seas, and I received a lamp which lights me, and I came up by the ropes of the boat of understanding. I went to sleep in the depths of the sea, and not being overwhelmed with the water I dreamed a dream. And it seemed to me that there was a star in my womb, and I marveled at that, and I laid hold upon it and made it strong in the splendor of the sun; I laid hold upon it, and I will never let it go. I went in through the doors of the treasury of wisdom and I drew for myself the waters of understanding. I went into the blaze of the flame of the sun, and it lit me with the splendor of it, and I made of it a shield for myself, and I saved myself by confidence in it, and not myself only but all those who travel in the footprints of wisdom, and not myself only but all the men of my country, the kingdom of Ethiopia, and not those only but those who travel in their ways, the nations that are round about. For the Lord has given us descendants in Zion and a habitation in Jerusalem.[^fn104] And further, there has come to us a portion with those whom He has chosen, the descendants of Jacob, for He has set His habitation to abide with us. From this time forth they are set down, and from this time forth we are set upright. From this time forth they are despised and rejected, and from this time forth we shall be honored and loved forever and ever and throughout all the generations that are to come.\
\'93And you, Oh noble ones, listen to me, and learn well what comes forth from my mouth and my words. Love what is right and hate falsehood, for what is right is righteousness and falsehood is the head of iniquity. And you shall not use fraud and oppression among yourselves, for God dwells with you, and the habitation of His glory is among you; for you have become members of His household. And from this time onward cease to observe your former customs, namely making auguries from birds, and from signs, and the use of charms, and incantations, and portents, and magic. And if after this day there be found any man who observes all his former customs, his house shall be plundered, and he and his wife and his children shall be condemned.\'94\
And the Queen said to Azariah, \'93Speak and declare how much you love our Lady with her Heavenly King.\'94}