{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi186\sa240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 Now, the Tabernacle symbolizes the horns of the altar, where the holy priests offer up sacrifice, on which they place the table, the likeness of the grave in which Christ was buried in Golgotha. And the offering on the table is a symbol of the firstling, that is to say, the Body of Emmanuel, or \'93\'92Akr\'e2\uc0\u7789 \'f4s,\'94 the \'93pure,\'94 the \'93unmixed,\'94 which our Savior took from Mary, of the which He said to His holy Apostles, \'93Eat My {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://95D683AE-371D-4BC6-9711-F0E87D27C0C5"}}{\fldrslt Body}}; whoever does not eat of My Body has no  portion with Me, and no everlasting life. But he who has eaten My Body, even though he be dead, shall live forever, for he is associated with My Body and My Blood, and he has become My heir, and he shall say to My Father, \'91Our Father who is in heaven,\'92\'94 and the Father shall answer him, saying \'93You are My Son,\'94 and the crown, which is above the offering, is a likeness of the stone with which the Jews sealed the grave. And when the priest said, \'93Send the Holy Spirit,\'94 the Holy Spirit shall be sent, and the Body of our Lord shall be complete. And when we have received we shall be participators in the Body and Blood of our Lord and Redeemer Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God, and the Holy Spirit, from now on and forever. Speak then to one another so that the Jews, who are blind in heart, and who are our enemies and the enemies of our Lord God, may not boast themselves over us. And they say, \'93Your gods are many, and you worship wood,\'94 and they say, preaching openly the word of Isaiah the Prophet, \'93You worship the half of it, and with the other half you cook the body and eat it.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7944CCDE-5C4F-4284-A3ED-CDA132E2F795"}}{\fldrslt \'94}} Now Isaiah said this in respect of those who worship graven images and idols. And they say that we say, \'93These are our gods, and they have created us;\'94 and that we talk to them and worship them as the Lord our God. And these also are they whom the devils lead into error in their wickedness, and David said, concerning them, \'93The gods of the heathen are devils, but God has created the heavens; truth and goodness are before Him.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D550BCF8-4F29-4A29-B3F3-0B7CCB8860BF"}}{\fldrslt \'94
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}}}